README.md, before:

# Läsp

A Lisp implementation in Ruby.

## Features

- Very concise [core library](lib/lasp/corelib.rb) written in Ruby
- [Standard library](lib/lasp/stdlib.lisp) written in Läsp itself
- Interactive REPL with auto-closing of missing trailing parentheses
- Fully functional macro system
- Interoperability with Ruby

## Installation

It needs Ruby to work, on Mac or most Linux OS:s it's already there and you can simply

```bash
gem install lasp

# If it doesn't work you might need to sudo
sudo gem install lasp
```

## Running

After installing you can invoke `lasp` for a REPL or provide a lasp-file to execute.

```bash
# An interactive prompt that lets you play with the language
lasp

# Run lasp-files
lasp path/to/program.lasp
```

## The language

### Examples

More advanced examples can be found in [EXAMPLES.md](EXAMPLES.md), you can also
look at the [standard library](lib/lasp/stdlib.lasp) which is implemented in
Läsp itself.

```lisp
(+ 1 2 3) ;; => 6

(def x 5)
x ;; => 6

(sum (list 5 10 15)) ;; => 30

(def inc (fn (x) (+ x 1)))
(inc 5) ;; => 6
```

### Data types

Supports these datatypes (implemented as their Ruby counterparts)

- integer
- float
- boolean
- nil
- string
- list
- dict

### Comments

Comments start with a `;` and end at the end of a line

```lisp
; This is a comment
(+ 1 2) ; This is also a comment
```

### Functions in corelib

Implemented as Ruby lambdas.

- `+`
- `-`
- `*`
- `/`
- `<`
- `>`
- `<=`
- `>=`
- `=`
- `list`
- `head`
- `tail`
- `cons`
- `dict`
- `get`
- `assoc`
- `dissoc`
- `not`
- `println`
- `apply`
- `.`
- `require`

### Special forms

Implemented as special cases while evaluating.

- `def`
- `fn`
- `do`
- `if`
- `quote`
- `macro`

### Functions in stdlib

Implemented in Läsp itself.

- `first` (alias of `head`)
- `rest` (alias of `tail`)
- `inc`
- `dec`
- `nil?`
- `empty?`
- `not=`
- `second`
- `mod`
- `complement`
- `even?`
- `odd?`
- `zero?`
- `len`
- `nth`
- `last`
- `reverse`
- `map`
- `reduce`
- `filter`
- `sum`
- `take`
- `drop`
- `range`
- `max`
- `min`
- `ruby-method`
- `str->list`
- `list->str`
- `->str`
- `pipe`
- `reverse-str`

## Macros in stdlib

- `defn`
- `defm`
- `macroexpand`

## Developing

### Run the specs

```bash
rake
```

### Dev REPL

```bash
# This is basically just a shorthand for `rake install && lasp`
rake repl
```

Commit message:

Add link to documentation in the readme

README.md, after:

# Läsp

A Lisp implementation in Ruby.

## Features

- Very concise [core library](lib/lasp/corelib.rb) written in Ruby
- [Standard library](lib/lasp/stdlib.lisp) written in Läsp itself
- Interactive REPL with auto-closing of missing trailing parentheses
- Fully functional macro system
- Interoperability with Ruby

## Installation

It needs Ruby to work, on Mac or most Linux OS:s it's already there and you can simply

```bash
gem install lasp

# If it doesn't work you might need to sudo
sudo gem install lasp

# You can update to the latest version the same way:
gem update lasp
sudo gem update lasp
```

## Running

After installing you can invoke `lasp` for a REPL or provide a lasp-file to execute.

```bash
# An interactive prompt that lets you play with the language
lasp

# Run lasp-files
lasp path/to/program.lasp
```

## The language

Please reference the [documentation](DOCUMENTATION.md) for specific definitions
and examples of particular functions.

### Examples

More advanced examples can be found in [EXAMPLES.md](EXAMPLES.md), you can also
look at the [standard library](lib/lasp/stdlib.lasp) which is implemented in
Läsp itself.

```lisp
(+ 1 2 3) ;; => 6

(def x 5)
x ;; => 6

(sum (list 5 10 15)) ;; => 30

(def inc (fn (x) (+ x 1)))
(inc 5) ;; => 6
```

### Data types

Supports these datatypes (implemented as their Ruby counterparts)

- integer
- float
- boolean
- nil
- string
- list
- dict

### Comments

Comments start with a `;` and end at the end of a line

```lisp
; This is a comment
(+ 1 2) ; This is also a comment
```

### Functions in corelib

Implemented as Ruby lambdas.

- `+`
- `-`
- `*`
- `/`
- `<`
- `>`
- `<=`
- `>=`
- `=`
- `list`
- `head`
- `tail`
- `cons`
- `dict`
- `get`
- `assoc`
- `dissoc`
- `not`
- `println`
- `apply`
- `.`
- `require`

### Special forms

Implemented as special cases while evaluating.

- `def`
- `fn`
- `do`
- `if`
- `quote`
- `macro`

### Functions in stdlib

Implemented in Läsp itself.

- `first` (alias of `head`)
- `rest` (alias of `tail`)
- `inc`
- `dec`
- `nil?`
- `empty?`
- `not=`
- `second`
- `mod`
- `complement`
- `even?`
- `odd?`
- `zero?`
- `len`
- `nth`
- `last`
- `reverse`
- `map`
- `reduce`
- `filter`
- `sum`
- `take`
- `drop`
- `range`
- `max`
- `min`
- `ruby-method`
- `str->list`
- `list->str`
- `->str`
- `pipe`
- `reverse-str`

## Macros in stdlib

- `defn`
- `defm`
- `macroexpand`

## Developing

### Run the specs

```bash
rake
```

### Dev REPL

```bash
# This is basically just a shorthand for `rake install && lasp`
rake repl
```
